(48) Learn 2000 Words in 7 Days and Understand 90% of Any Language: The Ultimate Strategy - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etywD4c7S6U

Transcript:
(00:02) Imagine understanding 90% of any language in just one week. Sounds impossible? Well, it's not. And in this video, I'm going to show you exactly how to learn 2,000 words in 7 days and how this will skyrocket your language skills. So, stick around because I'll break it down step by step, all right? This here is a list of uh verbs in French with example sentences and the English translation.
(00:35) French verbs starting with with the most common ones, like to be, to have, etc. And then less and less common ones here. The English translation of the verb and of the sentence. These are the sentences, example sentences, right? This verb is here somewhere, like in this case here, they conjugate. Verbs, example sentences, translation.
(01:04) So, why verbs? Because verbs are the most important words in a language when it comes to comprehension. A verb is what gives a sentence meaning. Uh a verb determines what action is taking place in the sentence. What's the sentence about? Nouns are important, adjectives are important, yeah, but but they're way less important.
(01:27) And by the way, if you learn the example sentences, you learn a lot of other words as well, not just the verbs, because you get the verb, but then you get like days, friends, yeah, you see? It's a lot of extra vocab here. So, in total, you learn maybe three four three or four thousand words with this. Uh 2,000 verbs. Even if you don't learn the whole list, cuz the verbs will get less and less frequent, so less useful, but even if you learn the first half, you will already understand 80% because of Zipf's law, right? The top few words, or verbs, or nouns, or
(02:09) anything are the most common uh in a language, and they show up way more than everything else. So, if you learn the first half of the list, you will already understand 80% uh of the language. If you learn the whole thing, 90, or even more. Now, how do we learn them? And this is French, but you could do this with any other language, by the way. It's It's exactly the same.
(02:33) If you are learning Russian, you have Russian verbs here, and then the sentences, and if you're learning German, whatever. So, the first thing you need is audio files of this. Yeah, so you have the sentences, and you've got audio files of the example sentences. Now, it's going to be really important. You need to be listening to those audio files all day, every day.
(02:58) Yeah, while you are working out, while you are going for a walk, while you are doing whatever, driving, commuting. These sentences, you should listen to them on repeat over and over again, every day, because uh repetition is the key to mastery here. Really important. Even if you don't understand anything in the beginning, you listen to them again and again and again. All right? Super important.
(03:27) Just this. There's no English. It's just It's just the target language. And 2,000 sentences is more or less 2 hours of audio, more or less. So, in a week, you can listen to that to the whole thing 10 times, if you find the time to listen to them. This is going to be a game changer, all right? As long as you do everything else.
(03:50) What's everything else? What's the actual learning? So, the listening will be reviewing them and also to work on your listening comprehension, but the real learning will will happen when you're studying. So, first thing you need to do is to determine if you need to use mnemonic associations or not. I didn't have to use mnemonic associations for French because I'm a native speaker of Spanish and most of these verbs some don't sound No, they sound different, but they are spelled and they they've got the same Latin roots, so
(04:25) they look very similar to Spanish. So, I didn't need to use mnemonic associations. They're already recognizable. If that's not the case as an English speaker, although French does have a lot of words that uh cognate with English cuz English got a lot of uh French vocab in the past for historical reasons, but not going to talk about that now.
(04:50) If most of them are not recognizable from the beginning, then you need to use some mnemonics. If you're learning Russian or Arabic or something like that, you will need mnemonics. Yeah, so you look at the verbs, find a word that sounds like it, visualize that word, visualize the meaning, and you create some sort of interaction.
(05:15) I've got tutorials on how to do this. Go watch them if you want to learn this skill. Learning to do mnemonic associations is going to be a game changer. It's going to help you memorize vocabulary way faster, all right? But, it's not it's really helpful, but it's not the the uh it's it's not vital, all right? You can do it without them.
(05:39) So, how do you learn them? Well, you learn the example sentences. So, what you need to do is simply read, look at the verb, all right? And we're going to the next one. And you simply review the whole list. I recommend doing it in chunks, 100 to 100 and words. And then sentences, all right? So, you could either download this as a CSV uh file and do it and then import it to Anki and and turn them into flash cards, which is not bad.
(06:17) It's actually pretty good, but it's pretty slow. Or you could do it while reading, but with the spreadsheet in front of you. I'd rather do that because you can go way faster. You can review much faster by doing that, all right? If you're into flash cards, yeah, you can download this and you get flash French verbs on one side and English translation on the other side.
(06:39) Target language one side, English translation on the other side. And you do that, all right? And then you do the same thing with the sentences. However, this is that's going to be slow and you don't want to be slow if you in life well, in general in life, but uh especially for this. If you want the results as fast as possible, you need to go fast.
(07:02) So, what you should do is play the audio files while reading and you read while listening. Yeah? You listen and you follow it while while uh listening and you also quickly jump here and read the meaning. Or the other way around, you quickly jump here before listening to it and then read it alongside it. Uh while So, you read each word while you're hearing it and then you quickly read the meaning of the next sentence.
(07:37) And then you knowing the meaning, you listen listen to it while reading. That's why you need to be able to read very fast. Uh If you If you're a slow reader, you need to work on your reading speed. It's If you can read fast, it's going to be really helpful in language learning. In life in general, but in language learning particularly.
(07:58) So, you listen to it while reading. And you do the first 100, 200, few hundred. And then Yeah, all right. You following me? Listen while reading. Play the audio file, listen to it and while also reading the meaning. So, you uh So, you understand what it means. And after you do that, you come back and you hide this part.
(08:34) Maybe you don't do that. You simply You simply don't look at Don't look at it because uh Yeah. Otherwise, you'll have to be moving it the whole time. You read the English and you try to say it in in the target language. And it's going to be really difficult. You do it aloud, all right? It's going to be really difficult.
(09:01) And then you look. You try to say it. He was always nice to his friends. Try to say it. Check. Okay, I got this or that wrong. Whatever. Most of it you'll get wrong. It doesn't matter. You try with the next one. You try with the next one. This is active recall. Yeah? You're trying to translate into the language.
(09:26) Super effective to remember things. To It's the most effective way to learn anything if you ask neuroscientists. Uh top students, but the smartest students, straight A students, they all to my knowledge they do this. I didn't I wasn't a particularly good student, but uh and I didn't do this. Uh but I've learned a lot about studying since my college days.
(09:50) Um so read English, try to say it in uh the target language, check. Again, again, again, yeah? And then once you've done it with as long as you want, uh as many of them as you want because this is slow and tiring, but you should do it. Once you get tired of this, you go back to where you left it. Let's say you did couple hundred.
(10:21) Play the audio file again and you keep reading while listening. And then you go back to doing this. Recall. And you do this exercise until the end of the text. The first wave is first round is reading while listening while checking the meaning. Second one is directly recall from English into target language. And you also listen to the audio files every day.
(10:56) Yeah? You should Like I said, you should be listening to them over and over. So, when you're doing the recall, it's something that Not the first day, but the second, third, fourth days um you will be doing recall. You will try to You will be trying to translate this into the target language. And these sentences you will have heard them a few times already, so it'll be way easier to do.
(11:20) And also you'll have a much better idea of how pronunciation works. Yeah, repetition's really important, like I said. So, you first round read while listening, second one active recall, translate into the target language. And once you're done, you do it again. Read while listening, and once you've finished doing the active recall part, you go back to the beginning and you try again.
(11:48) Yeah, and the second time you'll notice that you're making much fewer mistakes. Uh even if you're learning a language from scratch. Right? So, this is extremely effective. Do this. Now, this video is about comprehension, and active recall is really good for everything, but mostly for speaking. It helps you learn to think faster in the language, come up with sentences, and it gives you feedback so that you correct the main mistakes you're making, the most frequent mistakes you're making.
(12:24) So, it's really good for speaking, but it will help your comprehension as well. But But what about understanding native speakers, understanding podcasts, shows, all of that? Let's talk about that. So, if you learn the 1,000 to 2,000 most common verbs, that's pretty much all the verbs that you need. Um So, if you know those and you can recognize them in speech, that'll be huge for your comprehension.
(12:55) Now, there's a big gap in difficulty between s- sentences that you are listening on repeat, your own sentences you've read over and over and you've listened to over and over. Those are much easier to understand than native speech. And there's a huge gap in uh there, and to bridge that gap, what you we need to do is to combine them.
(13:23) So, once you start to understand these sentences, like the the audio files relatively easily. What you need to do is find podcasts about whatever topic you're into. Just go and ask ChatGPT. I'm into whatever, yoga. Find podcasts in your in yoga about French for me to listen to. And you start listening to them. And instead of only listening to these sentences, what you'll do is and again, do this only when you understand the sentences relatively well.
(14:06) You go back and forth. You listen You're listening to these sentences. You're feeling good. You understand decent amount, most of it. Put the podcast on instead. And suddenly you'll be like, oh wow, this is difficult. Uh if you started getting stressed, just go back to the comfort zone of the sentences.
(14:27) This will be much easier. Listen to the sentences again for a while. Go back to the podcast. And you keep going back and forth like this. This exercise, if you do this, uh will help you improve your listening comprehension a lot. Yeah? Combining the going back and forth between difficult, really difficult, but interesting, real materials and learning materials that are easy at that at that point.
(14:58) You go easy to difficult, you try. And the moment it start it starts getting tiring or frustrating, go back to the easy stuff. And then eventually you go back to the difficult. And you keep going back and forth. Every 5 minutes maybe you could switch. Or you could do it like 20 minutes and 20 minutes if if you already understand the native speaker materials.
(15:22) Like if you understand more than 50% of what they saying and you feel good about it, then you can keep listening to it uh for longer. But, uh if it's very difficult in the beginning, just 5 minutes and get back to the easy materials. And And you keep jumping back and forth between both. And very quickly, very quickly, I mean, in a matter of days, uh as long as you've been learning the vocab, you'll realize that the native speaker materials are getting way easier than they were in the beginning.
(15:58) And it will happen quickly if you do it like this. If you just lis- start listening to uh the language and you listen to it for hours and a hundreds of hours, like all those comprehensible input people do, it's you're going to need an insane amount of time to understand real content well. But, if you do it like this, like constant back and forth, like you're you're putting yourself in a position of having to understand something difficult and then go back to the easy thing, back to the really difficult thing.
(16:33) Um it's much more of a workout for your brain and it will eventually get used to it much faster. Also, you could also, once you understand these sentences relatively easily, you could, instead of normal speed, you could listen to them at 1.25 or 1.5 speed. You just listen to the faster and faster, so that the native speaker materials that you are jumping to uh feel slower and easier.
(17:04) Yeah? And that's how you do it, basically. If you learn the most common 2,000 or even 1,000 verbs in a language with example sentences and lots of listening to them, and then you start combining it, sandwiching it between uh like you do go go back and forth between the example sentences preferably like at a higher speed and then native speaker materials to go back and forth.
(17:35) You will very quickly develop the listening skills, the comprehension skills that you need to understand native speakers. And that's basically it, right? So, if you want to try this there's a link in the description. See you later.